---
layout: post
title: "Why I Enjoy Reading"
date: 2017-10-28
---

Early in my life I was a voracious reader. 
The first major series I remember reading was "The Boxcar Children," which was about a group of siblings who ended up solving crimes.
I also read many "Encyclopedia Brown" books. 
The next big series I became swept up in was the "Redwall" series. 
I was captivated by the fantasy elements and imagining all the various mice, hares, badgers, and so on having all of their various feasts and battles.

In 8th grade I remember not reading as much as I did before, and in high school I believe that trend continued. 
Part of that could be me being more interested in other things such as computer and board games, as well as podcasts. 

Since I just graduated college I have recently discovered what it's like to not have constant homework, and I've decided to take up reading again. 
Right now I am reading some books in German in order to keep up my language skills, but there is currently a pile of books on my dresser that I want to get through. 
My main goal is to actually read the books that I own that I have not read yet. 
I usually do not reread books because I tend to remember what happens in them fairly well, and I am more interested in finding new books to read. 

My favorite genre is sci-fi books. 
I really like reading about and thinking about the future worlds that the authors have designed.
Some of my favorite sci-fi books are:
  * Dune (I would still like to read the last 3 books in the series but I should probably just read them all again to refresh my memory)
  * Foundation (this series is my absolute favorite of all time)
  * The White Plague (written by the author of Dune)
  * The Hunger Games (I have the first book in German and Korean, and I think the movies were pretty good)
  
Some of my other favorite books are:
  * The Autobiography of Malcolm X (I think it's fascinating to hear his perspective on a topic I never really learned about in school)
  * The Pillars of the Earth (historical fiction)
  * the Eragon series (the movie is truly horrible)
  * the Jack Reacher series (pretty violent but I like the twisting plots)

I really enjoy reading because I get to take part in the adventures with the characters of the story. 
I can also invest in the world that the author has designed (at least for fiction books). 
As I am getting older, I am starting to also appreciate nonfiction books because they allow me to learn about the "real" world (mainly though the history books I have read). 
In general I find that books really spark my imagination and certainly helped my develop my curiosity and love of learning. 
