---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 012"
date: 2018-03-24
---

So for the last three weeks we have been covering prepositions. 
Today I felt like walking us through an actual German paragraph and explaining any grammar points that happen to come up, along with any fun vocab we find.

I will cover the first sentence of the [German Wikipedia page on the USA](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vereinigte_Staaten). 
So let's get going.

*Die Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika (englisch United States of America; abgekürzt USA), 
kurz auch Vereinigte Staaten (englisch United States, abgekürzt U.S., US), 
genannt und häufig auch verkürzt zu Amerika (englisch America), 
sind eine föderale Republik, 
die aus 50 Bundesstaaten, einem Bundesdistrikt (der Hauptstadt Washington, D.C.), 
fünf größeren Territorien und etlichen Inselterritorien besteht.*

Well that's quite a sentence, isn't it? German does like to use very long sentences (as well as a very long compound words).

Here are some general vocab words from this sentence:

| German | English | Notes |
|---------|--------|-------|
| *die Vereinigten Staaten* | the United States | This is a literal translation. You can see *ein* = one in the adjective meaning "united". |
| *Englisch* | the English language | There's basically never an 'sh' in German, just 'sch'. |
| *kurz* | short | |
| *abgekürzt* | shortened, abbreviated | |
| *auch* | also | |
| *genannt* | named | *nennen* = to name |
| *verkürzt* | shortened | |
| *föderale* | federal | |
| *die Republik* | republic | |
| *der Bundesstaat* | (federal) state | *Staat* can also mean country sometimes, so *Bundesstaat* emphazises that it's state that's not a country. *Bund* is related to the English word "bound". |
| *der Bundesdistrikt* | federal district | |
| *die Hauptstadt* | capital (city) | literally "main city" |
| *größer* | bigger | *groß* = big, so *größ-er* = bigger |
| *etliche* | several | |
| *die Insel* | island | |
| *bestehen aus* | to be made up of | |

Now one of the other things you may have seen is that the conjugated verb *besteht* is at the end of the sentence. 
At some point I have mentioned that the conjugated verb goes "in second position" and the rest of the verbs go to the end. 
This sentence uses a subordinate class, which is what this part of the sentence that you're reading is.
It's not a sentence by itself, but it is used to explain or add to the main sentence.
For German subordinate clauses, the conjugated verb goes to the end.
This can be very confusing when you're trying to learn German because you have to wait for the verb to actually understand the sentence, but over time you will get used to it. 
It is definitely something I still struggle with. 

Next time we may cover another portion of this page or we may dive in to something else. You'll just have to wait and see.
