---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 002"
date: 2018-01-13
---

Welcome to part 2 of my Learning German series.

Last time I showed the 3 grammatical genders of German. These illustrate the different articles for German (e.g. "the" and "a/an" in English).

Now I'd like to go through some simple sentences to demonstrate personal pronouns and verb conjugation.

First up: *Ich sehe die Katze.*
From the previous post we know *die Katze* = the cat.
*Ich* is the German word for I (but it's not always capitalized), and *sehe* is the first-person singular conjugation of the verb *sehen*, which is pretty close to the English equivalent verb "to see."

So *Ich sehe die Katze*  = I see the cat.

Above I had said that *sehe* is the first-person conjugation of the verb *sehen.* 
That sentence is probably quite confusing to anyone who has not studied languages before. 
Conjugations are how verbs are changed based on the subject (which is why English says: "I see" but "he see**s**".
In English the extra "s" is basically the only conjugation, but in German it is more complex (but not as bad as other languages like Spanish and French).

So here is the general layout of personal pronouns:

| Grammar Term | English | German |
|-------------|---------|--------|
| first-person singular | I | *ich* |
| second-person singular | you | *du* |
| third-person singular | he | *er* |
| third-person singular | she | *sie* |
| third-person singular | it | *es* |
| first-person plural | we | *wir* |
| second-person plural | you (y'all) | *ihr* |
| third-person plural | they | *sie* |
| second-person formal | you | *Sie*\* |

And here's the general conjugation guide for what you put on the end of the verb stem, using *machen* = to make, to do.
The verb stem is basically the verb without the final "en", so we start with *mach.*
These endings have very rare exceptions, mainly for common verbs such as "to be", "to have", and helping verbs like "can" and "want".

| Conjugation Ending | English | German |
|-------------|---------|--------|
| +e | I make | *ich mache* |
| +st | you make | *du machst* |
| +t | he makes | *er macht* |
| +t | she makes | *sie macht* |
| +t | it makes | *es macht* |
| +en | we make | *wir machen* |
| +t | you all make | *ihr macht* |
| +en | they make | *sie machen* |
| en | you make | *Sie machen*\*\* |

So for example, *das Spiel* = the game, so:

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| They make the game. | *Sie machen das Spiel.* |
| He makes the game. | *Er macht das Spiel.* |
| We see the game. | *Wir sehen das Spiel.* |
| You (singular) make the game. | *Du machst das Spiel.* |

Feel free to search around for other vocab to make simple sentences and I hope you are looking forward to part 3 and beyond.

\* So yes, 3 of these pronouns are *sie* and the "formal you" is always capitalized. It can be confusing, especially in the beginning.

\*\* Yes again, 3 of these conjugations are just the regular verb by itself. Be thankful that they're easy.
