---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 014"
date: 2018-04-07
---

This week we are continuing with the [German Wikipedia page on the USA](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vereinigte_Staaten). 
So let's get into it.

*Die Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika sind der drittgrößte Staat der Erde, 
gemessen an der Fläche von 9,83 Millionen Quadratkilometern (nach Russland und Kanada) 
und gemessen an der Bevölkerung von etwa 322 Millionen Einwohnern (nach China und Indien). 
Die nach Einwohnerzahl größte Stadt ist New York City, bedeutende Metropolregionen sind 
Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Philadelphia, Washington, Miami, Atlanta, Boston und San Francisco, 
mit jeweils über 5 Millionen Einwohnern. 
Der Grad der Urbanisierung liegt bei 81,62 Prozent (Stand: 2015).*

Here are some general vocab words from this sentence:

| German | English | Notes |
|--------|---------|-------|
| *drittgrößte* | third-largest | *dritt* is related to *drei* just like in English we have "third" and "three".  |
| *die Erde* | the Earth | |
| *gemessen* | measured | |
| *die Fläche* | area, surface | |
| *der Quadratkilometer* | square kilometer | |
| *die Bevölkerung* | population | You can see the root *Volk* = "folk" here. |
| *der Einwohner* | inhabitant | |
| *bedeutend* | major, substantial | |
| *jeweils* | each, respectively | |
| *der Grad* | degree | |
| *der Stand* | condition | Here this means the quote is from that year. |

One strange grammar feature that we find in the middle of this section is something I just named the "preemptive adjectival phrase". 
I'm sure there's a more official name for it, but it's found in this section: 

*Die nach Einwohnerzahl größte Stadt ist New York City*.

Literally this means "the [according to inhabitant-count largest] city is New York City".

So the elements in brackets is an adjectival phrase before the noun (here the word city).
This construction is something that is fairly common in German and 
I think it's not too hard to get used to (certainly compared to the separable prefix verbs we covered last time). 
There are even times I wish we could do that in English.

I hope you enjoyed today's lesson and I look forward to continuing this series in the future.
