---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 001"
date: 2018-01-06
---

I have decided to write a series of blog posts about learning German, a language I am reasonably confident in. 
I can read most of anything that gets put in front of me and can follow along with TV programs as well. 

I would encourage everyone to learn another language, or at least study other languages, so here we go.

The first key to learning German is to understand that there are three grammatical genders. 
For better or worse, English does not have grammatical genders.
French and Spanish, for example, have two: le/la and el/la respectively.

German has masculine (der), feminine (die), and neuter (das). These words are the equivalents of "the" in English (in languages this word is called the 'definite article').

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| the dog | *__der__ Hund* \* |
| the cat | *__die__ Katze* |
| the horse | *__das__ Pferd* |

Of course it gets more complicated than that, but these issues will be covered in the future (spoiler alert: in total there are six words for "the").

There are also changes for the indefinite article (a/an in English, un/une in French, etc).

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| a dog | *__ein__ Hund* |
| a cat | *__eine__ Katze* |
| a horse | *__ein__ Pferd* |

The key to learning these gender is really memorization from the first time you learn the word. 
Always find out the gender and keep repeating the article and the word together to get it into your head.

There are several clues that more intermediate / expert German learners can pick out though.
If a word ends in "-e" it is most likely feminine (such as *die Katze* above). 
If a word ends in "-ung" it is 100% feminine (such as the department = *die Abteilung*).
If a word is a profession it is most likely masculine (such as the student = *der Student*). \*\*

Hopefully you are courageous enought to continue learning German by continuing to the next lession. 
I firmly believe it's a worthwhile adventure.

\* German nouns are always capitalized. Why? To that I respond, what's life without whimsy?

\*\* To make a profession feminine you can add -in to the end: the female student = *die Studentin*.
 
