---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 013"
date: 2018-03-31
---

This week we are continuing with the [German Wikipedia page on the USA](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vereinigte_Staaten). 
We will finish off the first paragraph this time, which will give us some interesting vocab and a new type of verb.

*Die 48 zusammenhängenden Continental United States und Alaska liegen in Nordamerika, 
während Hawaii und kleinere Außengebiete im Pazifik beziehungsweise in der Karibik liegen. 
Das Land weist eine sehr hohe geographische und klimatische Diversität 
mit einer großen Vielfalt an Tier- und Pflanzenarten auf.*

Here are some general vocab words from this sentence:

| German | English | Notes |
|--------|---------|-------|
| *zusammenhängend* | contiguous, connected | Literally this means "together-hanging".  |
| *liegen* | lay / lie |  |
| *das Nordamerika* | North America | |
| *während* | while, during | This word can technically be a genitive preposition, but that's for another day. |
| *das Außengebiet* | insular areas | Literally this means "outer region." |
| *beziehungsweise* | respectively, or, or rather | The standard word for "or" is *oder*. |
| *die Diversität* | diversity | Any word ending in *-tät* is feminine. |
| *die Vielfalt* | variety | |
| *das Tier* | the animal | |
| *die Pflanze* | the plant | |
| *die Art* | type | |
| *aufweisen* | to exhibit, feature | This is a separable prefix verb. |

Now the last word in the sentence should be a bit confusing at this point (unless you already know about separable prefix verbs).
This type of verb is one of the most difficult things for me to remember / learn as I go about my German study.
Essentially there are certain verbs with a prefix (99% of the time a preposition we have already covered) which, 
when the verb is conjugated, comes off the verb stem and lands at the end of the sentence.

Here are a few more examples to get you used to this idea:

| German | English |
|--------|---------|
| *an-sehen* | to look at |
| *heraus-finden* | to find out |
| *an-kommen* | to arrive |

So *Ich sehe das* means "I see that", but *Ich sehe das an* means "I'm looking at that.
You can see that we sometimes have a preposition with the verb in English, but it does not go to the end of the sentence.

This type of verb can be frustrating for new learners because it's not necessarily obvious, 
especially when you're listening to spoken German.
However, these are quite common and it's important to be aware of them and bring them into your knowledge base as you go along.

I hope you enjoyed today's lesson and come back next time.
