---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 005"
date: 2018-02-03
---

Welcome to part 5 of my Learning German series.

Today I want to talk about two main topics: "to have" and the accusative case.
The accusative case is the technical term for the direct object of the verb.
If I haven't mentioned it before, German has six words for "the" depending on the case and number of the thing you are talking about. 
We already learned three of them (*der*, *die*, and *das*) and the accusative case will introduce one more: *den*.

But first let's look at the nopefully-now-familiar table for the verb "to have" = *haben*.

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| I have | *ich habe* |
| You have (singular) | *du hast* |
| He / She / It has | *er / sie / es hat* |
| We have | *wir haben* |
| You guys have | *ihr habt* |
| They have | *sie haben* |
| You have (formal) |  *Sie haben* |

Technically, "you have" should be *du habst*, but over time it has just become *du hast* and the *b* has been lost (it's similar for "he/she/it has").

I'd like to use sample sentences with this verb to illustrate the accusative case.
So, first, in English, obviously we don't even have gender for nouns. German has three (masculine, feminine, and neuter), so it uses different words for "the" and "a/an" to indicate the gender of the specific item.

Here is the table for "the" followed by "a/an" with nominative (the subject) and accusative (the direct object).

| Gender    | Nominative | Accusative |
|-----------|------------|------------|
| Masculine | *der* | *den* |
| Feminine  | *die* | *die* |
| Neuter    | *das* | *das* |
| Plural    | *die* | *die* |

| Gender    | Nominative | Accusative |
|-----------|------------|------------|
| Masculine | *ein*  | *einen*  |
| Feminine  | *eine* | *eine*   |
| Neuter    | *ein*  | *ein*    |
| Plural    | --     | --       |

So between the nominative and accusative cases, only the masculine words change.\*
I do find it useful to remember that you are technically getting a different list of options in the background, so to speak.
But let's look at some sample sentences to check out this new grammatical case in action.
The __bold__ words are in the accusative case.

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| They are hungry. | *Sie haben Hunger.* |
| I have a dog. | *Ich habe __einen__ Hund.* |
| He has a apartment. | *Er hat __eine__ Wohnung.* |
| We have a (male) cousin. | *Wir haben __einen__ Cousin.* |
| You guys are thirsty. | *Ihr habt Durst.* |
| The cat sees the other cat. | *Die Katze sieht __die__ andere Katze.* |


One last thing to note is that if you hear or see an unfamiliar word in a sentence, you can tell the gender by the article used with the word. 
So if you see the phrase *die Website* then you know *Website* is a feminine noun.

\* Things will get a shake-up with the dative and genitive cases (yeah, there are two more to learn).
