---
layout: post
title: "Learn German 006"
date: 2018-02-10
---

Today I'd like to explain the dative case to finish off the main grammatical case round up.
The genitive case will hang around in the background, but it is much less common than the three main cases.

As a reminder, the nominative case covers the subject of a sentence.
The accusative case covers the direct object. 
And today we'll learn the dative case, which covers indirect objects.

The indirect object is really best explained with example sentences, so here we go:

I give the table to the man.

Here "I" is the subject (nominative case). 
"The food" is the direct object (accusative case), because it is the object being given.
And then we have "the man", which is the indirect object. It's still an object, but he's not directly the object. 
Now in English, we use the same word "the" in all cases.
In German, yet another set of words for "the" is used, and this one is a bit different from the rest.
So let's tackle the chart and then go over some sample sentences.

| Gender    | Nominative | Accusative | Dative |
|-----------|------------|------------|--------|
| Masculine | *der* | *den* | *dem* |
| Feminine  | *die* | *die* | *der* |
| Neuter    | *das* | *das* | *dem* |
| Plural    | *die* | *die* | *den* +n |

| Gender    | Nominative | Accusative | Dative |
|-----------|------------|------------|--------|
| Masculine | *ein*  | *einen*  | *einem* |
| Feminine  | *eine* | *eine*   | *einer* |
| Neuter    | *ein*  | *ein*    | *einem* |
| Plural    | --     | --       | --      |

So now we have the new word *dem* and also in the plural you can see it's *den* +n. 
That means that you add an "n" to the end of the plural noun in the dative case (if it's not already there).

So let's run through some example sentences:

| English | German |
|---------|--------|
| I give the table to the man. | *Ich gebe dem Mann den Tisch.* |
| The man gives the woman the food. | *Der Mann gibt der Frau das Essen.* |
| They give the dog a gift. | *Sie geben dem Hund ein Geschenk.*\* |
| We give the food to the children. | *Wir geben den Kindern\*\* das Essen.* |
| You give me the book. | *Du gibst mir das Buch.* |
| She gives him the book. | *Sie gibt ihm das Buch.* |

Note how the word order is sometimes flipped compared to English.
We can say "I give him the food" or "I give the food *to* him".
In German you basically only say the first case.
If there's a pronoun (such as "I give *it* to the man" or I give *him* the food) then the pronoun comes first in German, 
like to English.

Also, you can see that "geben" is a slightly irregular verb because the vowel changes from "e" to "i" 
in the du and er/sie/es forms.

\* As an example, we can determine the gender of gift = *Geschenk* because this is in the accusative case and the article is 
*ein*, which only applies to neuter nouns. So it's *das Geschenk*.

\*\* "The children" is *die Kinder*, but since it's plural in the dative case we add an "n" on the end.
